feat: Improve Interchain Gas Payment documentation with troubleshooting and update sections (#292)
hyperlane-xyz/v3-docs: docs/reference/hooks/interchain-gas.mdx

}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

The `StandardHookMetadata` struct defines the fields required for metadata encoding:

- `variant`: Specifies the metadata format version.
- `msgValue`: Amount of native token sent with the message.
- `gasLimit`: Gas limit for the `handle` function on the destination chain. Ensure this matches your simulation results.
- `refundAddress`: Address to refund unused gas payments.

To encode this metadata, use the `StandardHookMetadata.formatMetadata` library function. Direct encoding of the struct with `abi.encodePacked` is not supported in Solidity.

#### Example Usage

<Tabs groupId="lang">
<TabItem value="sol" label="Solidity">

```solidity
// Example: Encoding metadata using StandardHookMetadata
bytes memory metadata = StandardHookMetadata.formatMetadata(
    0,               // ETH message value
    200000,          // Custom gas limit
    address(this),   // Refund address
    bytes("")        // Optional custom metadata
);
```

### Determine and Override the Gas Limit

1. Simulate and Benchmark Gas Usage:

- Use tools like Tenderly or Foundry to simulate your transaction and measure gas consumption.

> - If gas usage exceeds `50,000` gas, calculate an appropriate `gasLimit` and update your metadata.

Reviewer: this should specifically be simulate `handle` on your message recipient where the `from` address is the `mailbox` on that chain
we have a call to action for this in the explorer https://github.com/hyperlane-xyz/hyperlane-explorer/blob/03634076049bfce1611b4e41d1aa81910eab2962/src/features/messages/cards/TransactionCard.tsx#L326-L333

2. Update Your Metadata:

- Calculate the required `gasLimit` based on the simulation.

> - Pass the updated `gasLimit` in your metadata to prevent transaction reverts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pass the updated `gasLimit` in your metadata to ensure the relayer will deliver your message.
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Destination Gas Config

For each remote domain, the InterchainGasPaymaster sets the domain gas config.

```solidity
struct DomainGasConfig {
    IGasOracle gasOracle;
    uint96 gasOverhead;
}
```

### Gas overhead

The gas overhead is set as part of the destination gas configuration. This corresponds to the operational cost of processing a message on the destination chain.

:::info

- You should ensure the `gasOverhead` sufficiently covers the range of ISMs on your destination chain.
- As you can configure different ISMs for different message types, you may have different gas overheads for each ISM's `verify` function.

> 

Reviewer: this is honestly a lot more information than the developer needs to use this
the intent of the original separation of this and the other page was (protocol vs reference) was to separate explaining how the protocol works (more esoteric) from how to use it (more useful)

Author: agree this section has more protocol details than most devs need. Since we’ve simplified the IGP section and moved most the reference here, I think it makes sense to leave this here for now so devs still have the context they need.

If you have in mind a better place for it - I’m happy to move it. lmk what you think!

:::

## Gas Oracles

Interchain Gas Payment requirements are calculated using oraclized gas prices and exchange rates between the origin and destination chains.

> IGP contracts may be configured with gas oracles, which are responsible for tracking remote token gas prices and exchange rates. This allows the `quoteGasPayment` function to provide an accurate quote for the price of gas on a remote chain, denominated in the local chain's native token.

Reviewer: see my comments below about `quoteGasPayment`
we really only want devs to go through `quoteDispatch` on the mailbox at this point

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Using the Hyperlane Explorer for Debugging

The Hyperlane Explorer is a powerful tool to debug cross-chain message issues, including gas payments and relayer behavior.

### Key Features

- **Message Status**: View the current status of your message (e.g., "Retry: GasPaymentRequirementNotMet").
- **Gas Payment Details**: Check the gas amount paid (Origin IGP gas amount) and the amount required by the relayer.
- **Simulate Calldata**: Use the "View calldata details" option to simulate transactions on tools like Tenderly.

## Troubleshooting

This section covers common issues developers encounter with Interchain Gas Payments, along with potential solutions.

### `GasPaymentRequirementNotMet` Warning

- **Reason:** This occurs when the gas payment provided during `dispatch` does not meet the relayer's calculated requirement.

- **Solution:**

>   - Use `quoteGasPayment` to calculate the required payment for the destination domain and gas limit.

Reviewer: ditto here, unfortunately we no longer want to point people to use this function because it does not accept the metadata overrides we reference above

  - Verify that `msg.value` in your metadata covers the relayer’s quoted fee.
  - Check the message status in the Hyperlane Explorer. Look for: `Retry(GasPaymentRequirementNotMet)`.

### High Testnet Gas Prices

- **Reason:** Some testnets have limited gas token liquidity, which results in inflated gas prices.

- **Solution:**
  - Simulate the transaction to estimate realistic gas costs.
  - Be aware that testnet relayers may charge higher fees due to low token availability.

>   - Consider testing on a different network with lower gas token prices, if possible.

Reviewer: im not sure about this one

Author: removed, was in one of tg but seems not necessary/common

### Fallback Routing and Overpayment Warning

- **Reason:** `msg.value` exceeds the required gas payment, triggering the fallback routing hook.

- **Solution:**
  - Verify that your quoting logic (`quoteDispatch`) matches the relayer's anticipated fees.
  - Avoid overestimating `gasLimit` values without first benchmarking the `handle` function.
  - Simulate the transaction to confirm appropriate payment.

### Unexpectedly Large Gas Quotes

- **Reason:** A very high `gasLimit` was set, leading to excessively large gas quotes.

- **Solution:**

  - Double-check the `gasLimit` specified in your metadata.

>   - Use `quoteGasPayment` to calculate the required fee the `gasLimit`.

Reviewer: this function does not accept as a parameter the hook metadata which is why I think @nambrot was suggesting to remove reference to it

Author: updated to `quoteDispatch`
